Goa is India's smallest state by area and the fourth smallest by population. Located in West India in the region known as the Konkan, it is one of the most popular tourist destinations of India with beautiful beaches and historical sites. Goa is India's richest state with highest GDP per capita. The Indian epic Mahabharata refers to the Goa as Goparashtra or Govarashtra, which means ''a nation of Cowherds''.Calangute Beach  is also called the 'Queen of beaches' in Goa and among the best beaches in Goa. As stories go on, hippies had discovered this beach during the 60's so is it famous since then. Calangute along with Candolim, Baga and Anjuna form part of stretch of beach extending from just outside Panaji city to Fort Aguada. Calangute Beach is a 4 mile long beach that lies between Baga and Candolim beach. It is also among the top beaches of Goa.The Basilica of Bom Jesus is dedicated to St. Francis Xavier. The Construction of the church began in 1594 and completed in May 1605. The church is called 'Bom Jesus' meaning 'good Jesus' or 'infant Jesus'. This church is the first Minor Basilica in India and is regarded as one of the best examples of baroque architecture.The imposing facade built out of black granite in an exquisite combination of the Doric, Corinthian and composite styles, is remarkable for its simplicity.The Aguada Fort was built by the Portuguese colonial rulers on the beach south of Candolim at the shore of the Mandovi River in 1612. A freshwater spring within the fort provided water supply to the ships that used to stop by. This is how the fort got its name 'Aguada' meaning Water. The heart of the fort was protected by two hundred cannons and a deep dry moat, which one still has to cross to get inside.Reis Mogos was built by the Portuguese Viceroy Alfonso de Noronha in 1551 and was rebuilt in 1707. It was played an important role in the defense of Goa in 1739 against the Marathas. Originally it was an armed outpost built by the Adil Shah in the late 1400 and got destroyed in 1500. In the beginning the Portuguese used this Fort as a shelter for the viceroys and dignitaries who arrived from Lisbon. But gradually Portuguese realized the strategic importance of this Fort and used it to ward off Maratha armies.Dudhsagar Waterfalls is a four tiered waterfall located on the Mandovi River in Goa. This waterfall is amongst India's tallest waterfalls with a height of 310 m (1017 feet) and an average width of 30 m (100 feet) at it's peak. This falls is located inside the Bhagwan Mahavir Sanctuary, at the border between Karnataka and Goa states.
is a four tiered waterfall located on the Mandovi River in Goa. This waterfall is amongst India's tallest waterfalls with a height of 310 m (1017 feet) and an average width of 30 m (100 feet) at it's peak. This falls is located inside the Bhagwan Mahavir Sanctuary, at the border between Karnataka and Goa states.



