Happily snuggling the Sahyadris or Western Ghats, Saputara is a small yet special destination in Gujarat. Reckoned to be the most popular hill station in the state, at Saputara the lush green forests and enchanting waterfalls; the beautiful sunrise and sunset and the consistent salubrious climate accentuate the beauty of the region. It is an excellent place for those who wish to contemplate nature’s beauty; spend cozy moments with a loved one or simply like to be all by themselves.Saputara is amongst the most well-planned and organized hill stations in India. Here one can enjoy visiting the beautiful gardens and museum, taking a ride in the cable car and paddle boat. There is a great opportunity for those who like to hike and trek. Those who wish to witness the nature’s beauty also have special points to visit.Sunrise Point is situated around 1.5kms from Saputara towards Waghai. This place offers best views of Saputara and the adjoining region of Malegaon. So even if one misses out the sunrise view, one can enjoy a lovely panoramic view from here at any time of the day.Sunset Point in Saputara offers a vantage point from where a very scenic view of Dang Forest can be witnessed. The forest area around Saputara is dotted with tribal villages, so in far distance from the Sunset Point, one can also observe the tribal settlements. Gandhi Shikhar can be approached by only a ropeway from Vaity Ropeway Resort.There are three prominent gardens in Saputara namely Rose Garden, Lake Garden and Step Garden which can be a great delight to visit. In Rose Garden a wide variety of roses can be seen, while in the step garden the arrangement of the flowers is what catches ones’ eyes. At Lake Garden, which is situated on the bank of Saputara Lake, one has the chance to see a diverse variety of multi-hued flowers.Situated about 45kms from Saputara, the Botanical Garden sprawls over an area of 24 hectares and has about 14000 varieties of plants. The major highlights of the garden are Chinese Bamboo, Beer Bamboo and Golden Bamboo. One might also enjoy a walk in the garden where diverse flora is excellently exhibited.Gira Waterfall is situated off the Saputara-Waghi road about 49kms from Saputara. The waterfall originating from Kapri tributary is at its best during the monsoon season. The water cascades from a height of 30m into the Ambika River offering a very picturesque view. The best time to be here would be between June and NovemberIt is a small museum that displays the tribal lifestyle. There is a good collection of ornaments, musical instruments, agricultural implements, house objects of day-to-day use of native Dangis. The timings for the museum are between 10:30am and 05:00pm.